1. What is infrastructure as a Service(IaaS) and how does it work?

IaaS is a type of cloud computing service that offers essential compute, storage and networking resources on
on demand.

IaaS allows you to access compute storage and networking, servers and virtuisation via internet from 3rd party provider in order to 
create IT environment that best fits your environment
IaaS refers to pool of physical or virtual infrastructure that cloud provider will deliver to customer.includes storage and networking, servers
also include the management of the infrastructure but can also include other services as  IP address, n/w connections, load balancers, 
billing management, access management, storage resiliency, backup relication. These resources allow users to install OS, deploy databases
create storagea and install workloads as they require
IaaS work on Pay-as-you-go model, hourly , weekly, monthly/ yearly 

Benifits
cost effective
high degree of control over resources
scalable capacity to meet changing demand
access services from anywhere
secure DC
redunant and resilient - no single point of failure
24/7/365 availaibilty

2. Mention how critical the private cloud delivery model is.
Private cloud is a computing model that offers a proprietary environment dedicated to a single business entity. 
As with other types of cloud computing environments, private cloud provides extended, virtualized computing resources 
via physical components stored on-premises or at a vendor's datacenter.

for having in-house private clouds the organization needs to invest heavily in running and maintaining the infrastructure 
which can result in significant capital expenditure.
Vendor lock-in: This can be a major impediment in private cloud adoption especially when the hardware and infrastructure is outsourced.
This is a service delivery technique where the client company is forced to continue with the same service provider,
thus preventing the client to migrate to another vendor

3. Demonstrate how to use the MS Azure migrate wizard
Azure Database Migration Service is a tool that helps you simplify, guide and automate your database migration to Azure. 
Easily migrate your data, schema and objects from multiple sources to the cloud at scale.

fully managed service designed to enable seamless migrations from multiple database sources to Azure data platforms with minimal downtime
Azure Database Migration Service integrates some of the functionality of our existing tools and services. 
It provides customers with a comprehensive, highly available solution. 

The service uses the Data Migration Assistant to generate assessment reports that provide recommendations to guide you through 
the changes required prior to performing a migration. It's up to you to perform any remediation required.
When you're ready to begin the migration process, Azure Database Migration Service performs all of the required steps 

The Data Migration Assistant (DMA) helps you upgrade to a modern data platform by detecting compatibility issues 
that can impact database functionality in your new version of SQL Server or Azure SQL Database. 
DMA recommends performance and reliability improvements for your target environment and 
allows you to move your schema, data, and uncontained objects from your source server to your target server

4. Describe Microsoft Azure SQL as a SaaS.
With SaaS you merely can configure (user options of) the product and everything else is managed by the cloud provider.
 On PaaS you can configure High Availability, Disaster Recovery, and configure options for Business Continuity, 
 and you cannot set all this on SaaS. With SaaS you may not be able to configure options to make the product more 
 scalable in terms of performance, as you can configure on PaaS,
 We can argue that Azure SQL Database offers more than other PaaS databases offer, and because of that we should think of it as SaaS. 
 However, Azure SQL offers a good amount of management options that are not available on SaaS.
Another thing to take in consideration is that the security of the data on Azure SQL Database is not at responsibility of Microsoft as service provider
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) allows users to connect to and use cloud-based applications over the Internet. Common examples are email, calendaring and office tools (such as Microsoft Office 365.

5. Explain what a hybrid cloud is and why it's important.
is a computing environment that combines an on-premises datacenter (also called a private cloud) with a public cloud,
 allowing data and applications to be shared between them.
 Some people define hybrid cloud to include “multicloud” configurations where an organization uses more than one public cloud
 in addition to their on-premises datacenter.
 
6.What is serverless computing, and how does it work?
 With serverless computing, you don’t have to know anything about the hardware or OS your code runs on, 
 as it’s all taken care of for you by a service provider.
 Serverless computing is an execution model for the cloud in which a cloud provider dynamically allocates—and then
 charges the user for—only the compute resources and storage needed to execute a particular piece of code. 
 Naturally, there are still servers involved, but their provisioning and maintenance are entirely taken care of by the provider.


 

